['The legislation for the upliftment of the interests of labor, technically ‘Workmen’ and for the resolution of Industrial Disputes before the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 was the Trade Disputes Act, 1929. It was removed because of the loopholes it had and its failure to reach the objective desired subsequently leading it to be amended and the new Act of Industrial Disputes Act came into the picture. The foundation of the jurisdiction under the Act is the determination of the fact whether an employee is a ‘Workman’ as per the meaning mentioned in the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. Inevitably, the present legislation too is vulnerable to being misused by the employers to their advantage and cases like the following sets a precedent in giving interpretation or a clear understanding to the meaning of what falls under the definition of workmen under the Section 2(s) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.', 'The appellant, Arkal Govind Raj Rao, joined as a stenographer-cum-accountant in the respondent company on January 18, 1956.In January 1966, he got promoted as an assistant, after which in October 1972 company terminated his services contending that he was not a workman under the meaning of Section 2(s) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. This led to an industrial dispute being raised, which was then referred to the Labour Court at Bombay by the Deputy Commissioner Labour (Administration), Bombay.', 'Section 2(s) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947', 'Whether an assistant mainly performing clerical work comes within the meaning of ‘Workmen’ under Section 2(s) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947?', 'After various objections and evidence laid down by the parties, the labor court came to the conclusion that the appellant is not a workman as per section 2-s of the Industrial Disputes Act,1947 but an officer of the Covenanted Contractual Staff Cadre because he was not just doing clerical work but also supervisory and administrative work and other work of checking bank reconciliation, etc. The appellant then filed a writ petition in the Bombay High Court but it was dismissed in the initial stages itself after which the appellant filed this case through a special leave petition.', 'Some observations made by the Labour Court that lead to the decision against the appellant:', 'The appeal before this Court succeeds and the judgment is delivered in favor of the appellant. The order of both the Labour Court and the high court is set aside and the respondent company is ordered to pay the salary that the appellant would have normally drawn for the last six months and to pay him an amount of 3000 rupees. The reasons that lead the court to decide that the appellant’s duties were clerical in nature are listed below:', 'Ratio Decidendi :', 'The case redefined the word Workmen as per Section 2(s) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and stressed on the fact that it is the nature of the duties being primarily done by the person that determines whether he is a workman or not. The use of the same by the employers to use it to their advantage by attaching other trivialities to the primary work of the workman to try escaping the application of the concerned Act is something that this case tries to put an end to by setting a precedent itself.', '“The views of the authors are personal“', 'Reference', '[1] Kirloskar Brothers Ltd v. Labour Court, (1976) Lab IC 918, ILR 1976 (1) Delhi 565.', '[2] S.K. Verma v. Mahesh Chandra and Anr., (1983) 4 SCC 214, 1983 (3) SCR 799.', '[3] Ved Prakash Gupta v. Delton Cable India(P) Ltd., 1984 (2) SCC 569.', '']