['Cases of corruption against political leaders in India are not rare. This is one such case that notified the alleged corruption carried out by a significant political figure leading to registration of a case against him by his rival. Inevitably the suit underwent the question of legitimacy that led to the appearance of the same before the Supreme Court. The case holds importance as it significantly points out the powers and limitations of various authorities at different points of time throughout the trial of the matter. It re-emphasized the power of investigation that police holds and in what nature of cases, the necessity of filing an FIR, and the extent to which High Courts should use their special power of quashing criminal proceedings.', 'Bhajan Lal at the time of the case was the Union Minister of Environment and Forests and Devi Lal was elected as the Chief Minister of the State of Haryana. In the same election Respondent 2, Dharam Pal lost the election against Smt. Jasma Devi, wife of Bhajan Lal. Owing to various political rivalries and institutions of various criminal cases there was a lot of bad blood between Bhajan Lal and Devi Lal. Consequently, Respondent 2 placed a complaint before the CM, Devi Lal against Bhajan Lal where he alleged that Bhajan Lal possesses disproportionate property or pecuniary resources compared to his indefinite sources of income. It was also alleged that the accumulation of that much property was far beyond his legal means. Special Officer on Duty in CM’s secretariat passed the message to the office Director General of Police stating that the CM has sought appropriate action in the said case. The complaint was further passed on to the Superintendent of Police (SP) asking for the necessary measure to be taken and report back. The SP asked the SHO (Station House Officer) to register the case and investigate. Subsequently, a case was filed under sections 161 and 165 of the IPC and Section 5(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act in November 1987. The copy of the FIR was then sent to the magistrate and the investigation was started.', 'Following the filing of an FIR, Bhajan Lal through writs [i]of Certiorari and Prohibition under Articles 226 and 227 pleaded before the High Court to quash the proceedings taken in the current case where the allegations didn’t make for a cognizable offense thereby giving no power of investigation to the police. The High Court ruled in favor of Bhajan Lal as it was in consonance with the fact that it didn’t make for a cognizable offense, referring to Swapan Kumar Guha and the State of Bengal,[ii] and quashed the registered FIR along with charging a heavy fine on the respondent 2 for the recovery of the costs writ petition of respondent 1. The appellants then moved to Supreme Court by way of special leave against the judgment of the high court of not only quashing the Criminal proceedings but also the registration of the FIR.', 'The court after a thorough discussion of the legal principles attached to cognizable offenses and the investigation arising thereon held that on the basis of neither the facts nor law can the high court’s judgment be sustained. The Supreme court stated that there is a certain category of cases wherein the high court is empowered to stop the abuse of power by any of the courts and secure the ends of justice although it is not possible to set a particular standard for the determination of the same some informal guidelines are dealing with the same. It was pointed out that the particular power of quashing the criminal proceeding should be applied by the High courts sparingly in rarest of rare cases.', 'The case reestablished that our Constitution is based on the concept of Rule of Law which serves as an aorta of governance in our democratic system and no one or authority is higher than law and that Law Is Supreme. Everybody exclusively and on the whole is undeniably under the authority of Law irrespective of the wealth and power they possess. The case likewise relooks at the complete and resultant backlogs of evils like corruption that exist in our country. Therefore this parasite of bribery if not battled against on all fronts and at all levels checked and completely removed, will destabilize the very establishments of democracy and erode the foundations of rule of law and make the whole administration ineffectual and broken.', '“The views of the authors are personal“', 'Reference', '[i] Writ Petition no. 9172 of 1987.', '[ii] Swapan Kumar Guha and the State of Bengal, 1982 SCR (3) 121.', '[iii] Id.', '[iv] State of Bihar vs J.A.C Saldanha, (1980) 1 SCC 554.', '']