['As per the traditional Anglo-Indian criminal law jurisprudence, the fundamental principle says ‘All crime is local’. This means the jurisdiction only lies with the country where the crime has been committed. Owing to the present scenarios, such as in the present case where the citizens of a country commit crime from another country, the courts find it tricky and challenging to determine the jurisdiction of the court. States even claim extraterritorial jurisdiction if their interests are affected by the commission of a criminal offense. This is one such case that reaffirms the Jurisdiction of courts when an Indian Citizen commits a criminal offense from outside the country.', 'The appellant, Ajay Aggarwal is a Non-Resident Indian (NRI) living in Dubai, owner of M/S Sales International Dubai, concocted a conspiracy with four others living in India to cheat Punjab National Bank (PNB) in Chandigarh. The four others were; V.P. Anand, Baldev Raj Sharma, Bansi Lal, and Ranjit Kumar Marwah. Two enterprises in the name of other two accused were opened by Vipin Anand and the appellant, Ajay Aggarwal agreed and got the credit facility by way of foreign letters and issued proforma invoices to PNB through these new enterprises. The Bank Manager, Ranjit Marwah, 5th accused, in confabulation with accused, issued foreign letters of credit in violation of the import policy. The bills of lading were addressed to PNB, were sent to M/S Sales International to check if there is any discrepancy, correctness of which was confirmed thereafter. Trusting the same, the bank issued an Authority letter for the remittance of the amount to Emirates National Bank through some Irving Trust Company. All this happened in the presence of Vipin Anand and at his instance, Emirates Bank informed PNB of discrepancy in the document adaptable to Anand and claimed that goods in the vessel, M.V. Atefeh, were inspected; after which a full amount of 439,200 USD was credited against all the letters of credit. On investigation, it was established that three letters of Credit were all fabricated and vessel, M.V. Atefeh, did not exist and the bank had been cheated of Rs, 40, 30,329.', 'The Charge Sheet was filed against the appellant and all four accused under Sections 120-B,420,468, and 471 of the IPC.', 'The case first went to the trial where the accused were discharged of all the offenses on the ground that the offense did not take place in India and as per Section 188 of CrPC, the prosecution needed to bring Sanction of the Central Government for the maintenance of the case which wasn’t produced. The Judgment was revised by the High Court saying that the conspiracy took place in Chandigarh and the acts done in furtherance of the same were committed in Dubai, therefore no previous sanction from the Central Government was required. Setting aside the Trial Court orders, it directed for further proceedings to take place in accordance with the Law. The Order of the High Court is questioned under this appeal by the way of Special Leave under Article 136 of the Constitution.', 'P. Chidambaram, learned Senior Advocate, contended that the appellant was not privy to the conspiracy and is an NRI businessman who has not come to Chandigarh even once. The transactions were a bank to bank transactions and that part of the conspiracy as per the Prosecution case itself was committed in Dubai. It is agreed that criminal conspiracy is in itself an offense but any act committed in pursuance of the same outside India will require a sanction from the central government under section 188 of the CrPC for it to be tried in India. The offense was constituted of a number of ingredients and if even one of them was committed outside India section 188 of CrPC is attracted.', 'Sri Goswami, the learned senior counsel contended that the conspiracy to cheat the bank was hatched in Chandigarh and the overt acts committed further were also in Chandigarh. Hence, no Sanction is required from the Government as per Section 188 of CrPC and the high court had rightly recorded the findings of the case.', 'The court dismissed the appeal of the appellants and ruled in favor of the respondents that the Sanction from the central government was not required. The reason behind the same was given as follows:', 'By K.Ramaswamy', 'By R.M Sahai', 'From the Case, it can be concluded that an accused, being an Indian Citizen, committing a crime from abroad, can be tried by any court in India on being approached by the victim without necessarily obtaining the sanction of Central Government as per Section 188 of CrPC as claimed by the appellants again and again in the aforementioned case. Section 188 is not a condition precedent for the cognizance of the offense. Professor Glanville Williams in his article “Venue and the ambit of Criminal Law”[vi] stated that: Sometimes the problem of determining the place of crime is assisted by the doctrine of continuing crime. Some Crimes are regarded as being of a continuing nature, as they may accordingly be prosecuted in any jurisdiction in which they have partly committed the partial commission being, in the eye of the law, a total commission.', '“The views of the authors are personal“', 'Reference', '[i],K, Dalmia v. Delhi Administration\xa0 (1963) 1 SCR 253.', '[ii]. Noor Mohammed Mohd. Yusuf Momin v. State of Maharashtra (1970) 1 SCC 696.', '[iii] Lennart Schussler v. Director of Enforcement, (1970) 1 SCC 152.', '[iv] doctrine, established in a foreign case of R v Hutchinson(1677) 3 Keb 785, says a person who has been tried and convicted or has been acquitted by a court of competent jurisdiction in another country may not be tried again for the same offense.', '[v] Mobarik Ali Ahmed Vs State of Bombay, 1958 SCR 328.', '[vi]1965 LQR 518,528.', '']