['The case was first filed by the first Respondent, the Hotel Association of India, with four others before the Delhi High Court[i] to check the Constitutional validity of Section 30 of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914 that prohibits employment of “any man under the age of 25 years” or “any woman” in any part of such premises in which liquor or intoxicating drug is consumed by the public. The High court declared the law in question ultra vires of the Articles 14, 15 and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India to the extent that it prohibits employment of any woman in any part of such premises, in which liquor or intoxicating drugs are consumed by the public.', 'The NCT of Delhi seems to support the Judgment but seeks to support the impugned provision as a respondent in the case. The appellants are a few citizens of Delhi, questioning the validity of the impugned judgment. This is also a Special Leave Petition by the respondent, Hotel Association of India whose members have a business in Hotels, and Liquor is served not only in bars but also in restaurants and rooms as room service. This is to question the law in concern as far as the employment of men below 25 years in the public places serving liquor or intoxicating drugs is concerned.', 'The judgment of Delhi High court was upheld and the court said that legislation, in the present case, results in invidious discrimination perpetrating sexual differences. The restriction that was left untouched by High Court was removed and this court allowed for the employment of men under the age of 25 years in the concerned industry. The reasons behind coming to the conclusion are mentioned henceforth.', 'The case is an excellent example of how the essence of the Constitution lies in the dynamic and purposive interpretation of its text and the constitutional Courts breathe life into the constitution by doing so. Dynamic Interpretation ensures the Constitution’s endurance across generations. The purpose of Constitutionalism is in the transformation of society and dynamic interpretation allows progressive changes and realization of rights as the societies evolve[vi] The rights of the women as rightly mentioned in the Judgement were not realized when the legislation was formed and at the time of formation of Constitution, the aim of Constitution makers to incorporate Articles 14,15 and 16 was to ensure equality of rights between men and women and the duty, therefore, fell on the state to ensure the same. When the classification is sought to be done on a gender basis, it should be a rational one. The legislation was discriminatory in the 20th century when the hospitality sector was not open to women but in the 21st century, it gets invalidated on the same grounds. It is rightly observed by the court that the rights of the women undoubtedly rest in the present age and this case paves a great path in building feminist jurisprudence by busting the sex stereotypes that have been followed since time immemorial.', '“The views of the authors are personal“', 'Reference', '[i] Civil Writ Petition no. 4692 of 1999 before the High court of Delhi.', '[ii] The doctrine of Parens Patriae is a Latin phrase that has its roots in English Common Law. It grants the State with the power to act as a guardian for those who are unable to care for themselves.\xa0', '[iii] Res Extra Commercium is a Latin phrase that literally means “a thing outside commerce”. It is a doctrine that originated from Roman Law that certain things are insusceptible to being traded as they may not be the object of private rights.', '[iv]John Vallamattom case (2003) 6 SCC 611.', '[v] Kerala Samsthana Chethu Thozhilali Union v. State of Kerala and Others, (2006) 4 SCC 327.', '[vi]\xa0Rights over wrong, The Indian Express, Written by Arundhati Katju September 8, 2018', '<https://indianexpress.com/article/opinion/columns/rights-over-wrong-section-377-homosexuality-5345713/>.', '']