['The unprecedented momentous judgment in this case which was pronounced by the Supreme Court of India scrutinized the definition of “industry” as per section 2(j) of the Industrial Dispute Act, 1947. The Supreme court of India carried out in-depth the study of the definition in a comprehensive manner. The axiom laid down by the Apex Court eradicated the consensus influx of presumption made in regard to the definition “industry”. It becomes unpredictable in terming the definition that speculates great importance as the mechanism for settlement and compensation in relation to the Industrial disputes can only be resolved in a proposition when variances related to the industry arises. With the stated principles in the judgment, it annulled numerous past judgments of the Supreme Court but reduced the burden for the legislature by fixing up the issues in the right perspective. The two functional bodies i.e., “employer” and “employee” are the nucleus in every setup industry where any minute conflicts between them can rupture the foundation of an industry. The Supreme Court conducted tests through various aphorisms that what shall be included and to be excluded in the sphere of the definition.', 'While observing closely the Supreme Court raised questions about the construction of legislation where the drafter failed to produce the reliable meaning and definition of the word “industry” in the purview of Industrial Dispute Act, 1947. To remove such austerity from the legislative framework the Court must use their interpretation skills more vigilantly to repair such loopholes. In the case of\xa0Seaford Court Estates Ltd. v. Asher,1 Lord Denning, L.J., said “When a defect appears a judge cannot simply fold his hands and blame the draftsman. He must set to work on the constructive task of finding the intention of Parliament and then he must supplement the written words to give ‘force and life’ to the intention of the legislature. A judge should ask himself the question of how, if the makers of the Act had themselves come across this ruck in the texture of it, they would have straightened it out? He must then do as they would have done. A judge must not alter the material of which the Act is woven, but he can and should iron out the creases”.', 'The Apex Court cited the reference mentioned in Maxwell, Interpretation of Statutes,2which interprets that “It is necessary, therefore, to take the Act as a whole and examine its salient provisions. The long title shows that the object of the Act is “to make provision for the investigation and settlement of industrial disputes, and certain other purposes.”', 'In reference to the case Budge Municipality case, 3 the Apex Court dealt with the objects of the Act to define the term “industry” the Court said “When our Act came to be passed, labor disputes had already assumed big proportions and there were clashes between workmen and employers in several instances. We can assume that it was to meet such a situation that the Act was enacted, and it is consequently necessary to give the terms employed in the Act referring to such disputes as wide an import as reasonably possible.”', 'The definition which depicts the meaning under 2 (j) “industry” means any business, trade, undertaking, manufacturer or calling of employer’s and includes any calling service, employment, handicraft, or industrial occupation or avocation of workmen.\xa0', 'To make it relevant and to prove the definition, the Apex court conducted a test to determine whether an activity is consumed by the definition of “industry” or not, and can also be referred to as the Triple Test Method. The Apex segregated in three parts:\xa0', 'Part 1 “industry”:', 'Part 2:', 'Part 3:', 'These guiding principles shall also be applied in examining the economic operations as well as the statutory ideology shall be merged with the statutory definition even though the comfy connotes with Industrial disputes between an employee and employer.', 'Now the supreme court, based on these mentioned Triple Test theory they summarised whether the following activities would fall under industry or not:', 'Department of municipal discharges many functions some may include in the definition of industry or some non-industrial, particularly subdominant function shall prevail in the criterion for the Act 4(Corpn.of city of Nagpur v. Employees, AIR 1960 SC 675)', 'With this Triple Test Method, the apex court critically examined and advanced the meaning of “industry” where it was held that Banglore Water Works shall be included in the purview of definition and Act.', 'The Apex Court even cited certain establishments that are not in the sphere of the industry are Posts and Telegraphs Department ( Union of India v. Labour Court),8 Central Institute of Fisheries, Construction, And Maintenance of National and State Highways (State of Punjab v. Kuldip Singh and another). 9\xa0', '\xa0The Court in this above Banglore Water Supply Case dismissed the appeal of the Appellant Board and rightly restored judicial discipline and eradicated the unnecessary turmoil caused chaos with the interpretation of the statue. Seven apex Judges briefly explained and interpreted the statute provisions and even opined on the part of the legislature to removes the fog in the drafting perspective so that it won’t tarnish the basic interpretation of Act. With the enforcement of a newly advanced definition, the sectors and establishment/s which were on the darker side of the statute were brought in to the limelight so that the contingent issues may be resolved by these laid down principles.', '“The views of the authors are personal“', 'Reference', '1 Seaford Court Estates Ltd. v. Asher [1949] 2 All. E. R. 15 5 at 164.', '2 Maxwell, Interpretation of Statutes, 9th Edition, p. 55.', '3 Budge Municipality case [1953] S.C.R. 302 at 310.', '4 Corpn.of city of Nagpur v. Employees, AIR 1960 SC 675.', '5 \xa0State of Bombay v. Hospital Mazdoor Sabha AIR 1960 SC 610.', '6 \xa0Lalit Hari Ayurvedic College Pharmacy v. Workers Union AIR 1960 SC 1261.', '7 \xa0Bombay Panjrapole v. Workmen (1971) 3 SCC 349.', '8 Union of India v. Labour Court,(1984) 2 LLN\xa0 577 ).', '9 State of Punjab v. Kuldip Singh and another, 1983 Lab IC 83).', '']